# distix

This is the core component of [the distix project](https://github.com/distix-pj) for generating SBOM of RPM-based Linux Distributions.
The distix project focuses on the SBOM for Linux distributions (especially in RPM-based) and usage of the SBOM.
And distix is a SBOM generator to generate all SBOMs used within distix project.

Please see the link below if you want to know more about distix project:
 - [the distix project](https://github.com/distix-pj)

## Getting Started

0. Setting up your Go env..

1. Clone & move to this repository
```
$ git clone https://github.com/distix-pj/distix.git & cd $_
```

2. Install dependencies

```
$ 
```

3. Run command as script
```
$ go run cmd/distix/main.go --help
```

4. or Build & run binary
```
$ go build 
$ ./distix --help
```

## Type & Concept of SBOM distix generates

distix supports generating several types of SBOMs, with dedicated subcommands for each type.
This section describes the types of SBOMs, their concepts, and examples of subcommand usage.

### Package SBOM

distix can generate an SBOM for RPM package file(binary).
The generated SBOM includes dependencies(requires) and provision(provides) relationships at the RPM Capability level.

Package SBOM can be generated by running `package` subcommand as shown below:
```
$ distix package --input-file [/path/to/package]
```

### Onesystem SBOM

distix can generate an SBOM for a running  RPM-based Linux distribution system by analyzing its rpmdb.
The components are listed at the package level, and package dependency relationships are included.
This feature is the same of the existing SBOM generator's one. (The logic of dependecies detection might be different.)

Onesystem SBOM can be generated by running `onesystem` subcommand as shown below:
```
$ distix onesystem 
```

### Distsystem SBOM

distix can generate an SBOM for a running RPM-based Linux distribution system by analyzing its rpmdb.
This feature generates one system-level SBOM file and individual SBOM files for each installed packages.
The generated SBOMs have below characteristics.
 - The system-level SBOM includes the package infomation as components but doesn't include dependency relationships between packages.
 - Each package component in the system-level SBOM includes an 'External Reference' points to its corresponding individual package SBOM file.
 - Each individual package SBOM is similar to those generated by `package` subcommand and includes dependencies(requires) and provision(provides) relationships at the RPM Capability level.
This feature represents a novel approach leveragind of RPM and distribution systems. For usage examples, please refer to the on distix project page or other repositories under distix project.

Distsystem SBOM can be generated by running `distsystem` subcommand as shown below. By default, individual package SBOMs are generated in subcomps directory.
```
$ distix distsystem
```

